Hi there. In this video, we are gonna
talk about a very ubiquitous command called cat,
which stands for concatenate. And it allows you
to quickly look at a file that's on
your system and print it to the screen.
That's really all it does. It's actually called
concatenate because if you, use the command on
multiple files, it prints one after the other
after the other and puts them all together
into one long list of files. So let's
take a look here. I'm gonna change directories
into my CS107 directory and then assignments and
assignment zero folder and in here I have
a couple of different files here And, in
fact, let's actually do the long list of
files. So I've got a I've got a
hello c file which is, just a c
program. I've got a hello binary file which
is your program once it's been compiled And
I've got some other types of files as
well. So if I type cat and then
hello dot c, it actually just prints to
the screen. And that's really the the extent
of the command. You can actually type hello
dot c followed by readme dot t x
t and it will print both of them
out there and the readme have lots of
text in it. So that's really about it.
You'll use the cat command very often to
to view files like that. You can't do
well, if you type cat inner folder, it
will say it's a directory. So that's not,
you can't cat a directory because it doesn't
make any sense. You can actually, you could
cat hello which is the binary file. You
don't actually want to do this, watch what
happens when I do this, right? It's garbage
and in my headset right now I'm getting
lots of like beeps and things because nothing's
actually there. That's your actually your compiled program
and so that doesn't doesn't actually make sense
to cat that. But if you cat regular
old text files, you can do that. Another
command that's very similar in the sense of
viewing a file is called less. There's another
one called more, but less is the one
I like to use. And less will bring
up the file and allow you to actually
scroll through it. I'm I'm actually scrolling through
it, but I can't tell in this case.
So, you can do that and then it's
quit. It's just it's more or less the
no pun intended using the same interface as
the man command. So, that's that. That's the
cat command. Thanks.